doc/proposals/improved-scorecard-config.md: make proposal (#1558)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: doc/proposals/improved-scorecard-config.md

# Improved Scorecard Config

Implementation Owner: AlexNPavel
Status: Draft

- [Background](#Background)
- [Goals](#Goals)
- [Design overview](#Design-overview)
- [User facing usage](#User-facing-usage)

## Background

> The `scorecard` subcommand in the `operator-sdk` currently has ~15 different command line flags. This can become

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `scorecard` subcommand in the `operator-sdk` currently has ~15 different command line flags. This creates
```

> very dirty to configure for the user. Also, many of the config options only apply to the internal plugins, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unnecessary complexity for users. Also, many of the config options only apply to the internal plugins, and
```

> this may become confusing to users who use external plugins, as they may think that these config options may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this may become confusing to users who use external plugins, as they may think that these config options
```

> affect their external plugins. Using a config file that allows configuring plugins on a plugin-by-plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
affect their external plugins. Using a config file that configures plugins on an individual
```

basis can help clarify these differences as well as make configuration a lot cleaner

## Goals

Drastically reduce the amount of command line flags in the `scorecard` subcommand and define a configuration file
format that can allow for the simple configuration of both internal and external plugins.

## Design overview

The configuration for the scorecard will be in a `scorecard` subsection of the config file. This will allow
the config file to continue working properly when the SDK adds global config file support for all subcommands.
Under the scorecard subsection there are configuration options that apply to the entire scorecard as well as

> a section that allows for the configuration of both internal and external plugins. Here are the configu options

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a section that allows for the configuration of both internal and external plugins. Here are the config options
```

and what they do:

> - `kubeconfig` string - path to kubeconfig. This option sets the kubeconfig for internal plugins via viper and sets the `KUBECONFIG` env var for external plugins

Reviewer: Remove reference to `viper` as that's an implementation detail.

> - `output` string - sets output format. Valid values: `human-readable` and `json`

Reviewer 2: Nit: Can we make this `text` instead of `human-readable`?

Author: The current config uses the term `human-readable`, this is just copied from that. This would probably be a good opportunity to change it though, since we're completely changing the way we configure this. I think `text` is a better naming than `human-readable`.

/cc @joelanford @estroz @shawn-hurley

Reviewer 3: @AlexNPavel I agree with `text`

- `plugin-dir` string - path to scorecard plugin directory. This is the directory where the plugins are run from, and all executable files in a `bin` subdirectory of the `plugin-dir` are automtically run by default.

> - `plugins` - an array of objects that configure both internal and external scorecard plugins

Reviewer 2: Can you give an example of how this command would in full with the 3 elements mentioned bellow? Thanks!

Author: I'm not sure I understand your question.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, how would I use the plugins option? `operator-sdk scorecard --plugins...` then what? :) Just want an example of the command with the other values you can specify, would user tend ot use all of them always. thanks!

> - `plugins` - this is an array of elements that allow for the configuration of both internal and external scorecard plugins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `plugins` - an array of objects that configure both internal and external scorecard plugins
```

> The elements in the `plugins` configuration have 3 elements: `name`, `disabled`, and either `internal` or `external`. The `name` is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The objects in the `plugins` configuration have 3 elements: `name`, `disabled`, and either `internal` or `external`. The `name` is
```

the name of the plugin and `internal` and `external` are configuration blocks used if the plugin in `internal` or `external`
respectively. If `internal` and `external` are both specified for the same block, the plugin is automatically marked as failed. The

> `disabled` field is `false` by default, but can be set to `true` to disable tests that would be automatically run, such as the

Reviewer 2: > `disabled` field is `false` by default, but can be set to `true` to disable tests

this reads a bit confusing to me, `disable` would make a bit more sense to me. WDYT?

Author: Yeah, that would be a bit better

> `basic` and `olm` tests and external plugins in `plugin-dir/bin`. For internal plugins, the `type` field must be set in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`basic` and `olm` tests and external plugins in `{plugin-dir}/bin`. For internal plugins, the `type` field must be set in
```

> the`internal` config block and for external plugins the `command` field must be set in the `external` config block for the`disabled`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `internal` config block and for external plugins the `command` field must be set in the `external` config block for the`disabled`
```

config to work properly.

Configuration for `internal` contains all of the original configuration options for the scorecard that pertained to internal plugins. They are:

- `namespace`
- `init-timeout`
- `olm-deployed`
- `csv-path`
- `namespaced-manifest`
- `global-manifest`
- `cr-manifest`
- `proxy-image`
- `proxy-pull-policy`
- `crds-dir`

There is also another config option called `type` which can be set to `basic` or `olm` to configure which internal plugin to run.

Configuration for `external` contains 3 fields:

> - `command` string - path to the command being run. Can be relative or absolute. If an executable from `plugin-dir/bin` is specified in the `command` field, it will not be automatically run without configuration as it would be otherwise. The same command can be specified in multiple plugins if a user wishes to run the same plugin multiple times with different configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `command` string - path to the command being run. Can be relative or absolute. If an executable from `{plugin-dir}/bin` is specified in the `command` field, it will not be automatically run without configuration as it would be otherwise. The same command can be specified in multiple plugins if a user wishes to run the same plugin multiple times with different configurations.
```

> - `args` \[\]string - a string array consisting of the args to be specified for the command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `args` \[\]string - a string array consisting of args passed to the command
```

> - `env` - array of elements that contain 2 fields, `name` and `value`, that configure the environment variables that the command is run with. If a user specified a kubeconfig in the main `scorecard` config and also sets `KUBECONFIG` in this section, the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable in this section has priority. This allows a user to run certain plugins under a different kubernetes environment if necessary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `env` - array of elements that contain 2 fields, `name` and `value`, that configure the environment variables that the command is run with. If a user specified a kubeconfig in the main `scorecard` config and also sets `KUBECONFIG` in this section, the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable in this section has priority. This allows a user to run certain plugins under a different Kubernetes environment if necessary
```

Here is an example config:

```yaml
scorecard:
  output: json
  plugins:
    - name: Basic Tests

>       internal:

Reviewer 3: Do you envision a scenario where we'll need to add flags to either the basic or OLM tests or where we'll have another internal test that has a different set of flags?

If so, WDYT of removing `type` from the `internal` map and have a separate map for each different type:

```yaml
plugins:
- name: Basic Tests
  basic:
    cr-manifest:
      - "deploy/crds/cache_v1alpha1_memcached_cr.yaml"
      - "deploy/crds/cache_v1alpha1_memcachedrs_cr.yaml"
    init-timeout: 60
    csv-path: "deploy/olm-catalog/memcached-operator/0.0.3/memcached-operator.v0.0.3.clusterserviceversion.yaml"
    proxy-image: "scorecard-proxy"
    proxy-pull-policy: "Never"
- name: OLM Tests
  olm:
    cr-manifest:
      - "deploy/crds/cache_v1alpha1_memcached_cr.yaml"
      - "deploy/crds/cache_v1alpha1_memcachedrs_cr.yaml"
    init-timeout: 60
    csv-path: "deploy/olm-catalog/memcached-operator/0.0.3/memcached-operator.v0.0.3.clusterserviceversion.yaml"
    proxy-image: "scorecard-proxy"
    proxy-pull-policy: "Never"
- name: Custom Test
  external:
    command: bin/my-test.sh
- name: Custom Test v2
  external:
    command: bin/my-test.sh
    args: ["--version=2"]
- name: Custom Test Cluster 2
  external:
    command: bin/my-test.sh
    env:
      - name: KUBECONFIG
        value: "~/.kube/config2`
```

Author: Well, the proposal for the YAML defined internal tests would definitely have a different config: #1241.

It would probably be better to define those as separate maps. I'll make that change

Author: Updated.
